# NLP-Seminar project - extended MeLIME

## MeLIME Features 

Extended MeLIME can be applied to any ML model.
You can generate explanations using the Basic Statistical Measurements model.

You can also easily implement your own. 

To create the meaningful feature space for your ML model, it is available for three strategies:

1. Word2VecGen: where a word2vec is used to represent tokens. 
1. Word2VecGen with GloVe: where the word2vec uses GloVe embeddings, pretrained on Wikipedia. 
1. Word2VecGen with GloVe and ELMo: where the word2vec uses GloVe, pretrained on Wikipedia, and ELMo embeddings. 

Again, you can implement your generator as well. 

## How to install using python virtual environment

```
git clone https://github.com/ortalcohen94/NLP-Seminar.git
cd NLP-Seminar
python3.7 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
python setup.py install 
```

## Examples

The examples are in the experiments folder and can be run using jupyter notebook.  

```
pip install jupyter
jupyter notebook
```

then open one of the experiment files. Each experiment contains in the beginning a cell for tuning several hyperparameters. 
For running again the experiment, please change RERUN_EXPERIMENT to the value of True. 

### Sentiment analysis task: reproducing the original experiments
Uses Rotten tomatoes dataset. 
The explanation is generated by our re-implementation of the original MeLIME model, for verifying the correctness of our implementation.

Go to this [example](https://github.com/ortalcohen94/NLP-Seminar/blob/main/project_notebook.ipynb).


### NLI task: original MeLIME reimplementation

Uses eSNLI dataset.
The explanation is generated by using MeLIME model.

Go to this [example](https://github.com/ortalcohen94/NLP-Seminar/blob/main/project_notebook_SNLI.ipynb).

### NLI task: GloVe

Uses eSNLI dataset.
The explanation is generated by using MeLIME model with GloVe word embeddings pre-trained on the Wikipedia dataset.

Go to this [example](https://github.com/ortalcohen94/NLP-Seminar/blob/main/project_notebook_SNLI-GloVe.ipynb).

### NLI task: GloVe+ELMo

Uses eSNLI dataset.
The explanation is generated by using MeLIME model with GloVe word embeddings, pre-trained on the Wikipedia dataset, and ELMo word representations.

Go to this [example](https://github.com/ortalcohen94/NLP-Seminar/blob/main/project_notebook_SNLI-GloVe%2BELMo.ipynb).


